# Good First Issues

Are you thinking about contributing to Touca but don't really know where to
start? This page lists a few good first projects that are relatively small in
scope, have clear requirements, and don't need a deep understanding of how Touca
works. We hope that you find at least one of them interesting enough to start
contributing to Touca. If that's not the case, come say hi on
[Discord](https://touca.io/discord) and ask us for a few more suggestions.

## Touca Server

### 1. Allow user to manually toggle dark mode

Touca Web App, written in Angular, supports two light and dark modes. Currently,
the web app follows the system preference to determine whether to use the dark
mode. We would like to let users manually override this behavior and set
preference through their profile page. The Web App should query this user
preference and adjust the display mode accordingly.

- [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/35)

## JavaScript SDK

### 2. Split the SDK into separate packages

Currently, our JavaScript SDK comes in one single package `@touca/node` with
dependencies on `fs`, `path`, `http`, `https`, and `url` node modules. This
prohibits using the SDK in environments where node is not available. In
addition, the SDK comes includes a test framework that is responsible for taking
command line arguments and reporting the outcome of the test through the
standard output. We rely on dependencies such as `yargs` and `chalk` to perform
these operations.

We'd like to split `@touca/node` into packages `@touca/core` and `@touca/cli`
and move the test framework and other extra SDK functionalities into the
`@touca/cli` package, making `@touca/core` suitable for a variety of
environments.

- [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/194)

## C++ SDK

### 4. Create package recipe for ConanCenter

Most engineering teams using Touca for serious C++ projects simply clone a
stable version of our C++ SDK and repackage it internally. This is, in part,
because the C++ ecosystem does not have a universally adopted package manager,
like npm or PyPI. Teams that have the luxury to be ahead of the curve use
[Conan](https://conan.io) or [vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io). These are battle-tested
package managers suitable for large complex codebases but also very relevant and
convenient for smaller projects.

We like to make Touca available on [Conan Center](https://conan.io/center)
public package registry to make it easier for Conan users to try Touca. To do
so, we'd need to add a recipe for Touca to the `conan-center-index` repository.
The instructions to do so are well documented
[here](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/docs/how_to_add_packages.md).
But we may also have to make changes to our own `conanfile.py` (which is
[here](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/blob/main/sdk/cpp/conanfile.py)). In
particular, we may need to improve how our CMake logic installs the libraries
and links to its third-party dependencies.

- [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/33)
- Relevant: [Github Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/32) for
  CMake improvements

### 5. Improve CMake logic for packaging

We are not using the standard CMake logic for packaging, exporting, installing,
and finding the C++ library. This makes it difficult to package the library for
publication to conan-center, vcpkg and other dependency management repositories.
The goal of this ticket is to improve this CMake logic.

- We should be able to export all CMake targets and install them in a `touca::`
  CMake namespace.
- We should write a CMake config file that allows us to find the library using
  CMake's `find_*` function.
- We should be able to use CPack to package the C++ SDK.

Relevant Links:

- [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/32)

## Java SDK

### 6. Better way to run example

Our Java Examples in `examples/java` and `sdk/java` directories are defined as
standalone applications. Unlike JUnit tests that are in often placed in the
`src/test`directory of a given library/package, Touca tests live outside the
library in a separate `examples` directory. This is unintuitive. But we are no
Java or Gradle experts and simply didn't know any better. If you have ideas on
how to fix this, please have at it.

Because of this directory layout, we reference these Java examples in
`settings.gradle.kts` and have separate `build.gradle.kts` files for each
example. Each build file has a `JavaExec` task like below:

```kotlin
task<JavaExec>("runExampleMinimal") {
    main = "io.touca.examples.minimal.PrimeTest"
    classpath = sourceSets["main"].runtimeClasspath
}
```

This way, we can run the example application using the following command:

```bash
gradle runExampleMinimal --args='--api-key <TOUCA_API_KEY> --api-url <TOUCA_API_URL> --revision 1.0 --testcase 13'
```

Note that we are using `gradle` here instead of `gradlew` so we can run the task
and pass the appropriate command line arguments. Very ugly. Yuck! There must be
a better way. We don't know it yet, but maybe you do. The first task for this
issue is to figure out how to improve this setup. The second task is to actually
implement it and convert the existing examples to the new pattern accordingly.
We should also update all getting started documents and markdown files in
`examples` directory as part of this work.

- [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/189)

## Community Contributions

The following tasks were once listed on this page as _Good First Issues_ and are
now marked as done thanks to contributions from members of the Touca community.

- Share types between Touca Server components
  ([GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/195))
  ([PR](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/pull/198) by
  [@committomaster](https://github.com/committomaster))

- Improve UX in self-hosting install wizard
  ([GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/196))
  ([PR](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/pull/283) by
  [@ghorbanzade](https://github.com/ghorbanzade))

- Create a Unified Docker image for Touca Server
  ([GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/191))
  ([PR](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/pull/289) by
  [@ghorbanzade](https://github.com/ghorbanzade))

- Add new CLI subcommand `results`
  ([GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/112))
  ([PR](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/pull/324) by
  [@mmdbalkhi](https://github.com/mmdbalkhi))

- JavaScript SDK should support configuration profiles
  ([GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/192))
  ([PR](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/pull/338) by
  [@ghorbanzade](https://github.com/ghorbanzade))

- JavaScript SDK should switch from lerna to npm workspaces
  ([GitHub Issue](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/issues/193))
  ([PR](https://github.com/trytouca/trytouca/pull/349) by
  [@rossh87](https://github.com/rossh87))
